= VGH Scripts

A collection of custom scripts used on VladGh.com


== Instalation

Some system wide dependencies should be installed first:

    apt-get install libxslt-dev libxml2-dev

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

    gem 'vgh'

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install vgh


== Configuration

This gem looks for the following configuration files inside "+/etc/vgh+" or the
+--confdir+ specified in {VGH::CLI CLI Class}:

[+config.yml+]
  The main configuration file for this gem.
  <em>At this moment nothing needs to be configured here.</em>

[+aws.config.yml+]
  The AWS specific configuration.
  Available values:
  - +:access_key_id+ - [String] Your AWS credentials
  - +:secret_access_key+ - [String] Your AWS credentials
  - +:region+ - optional [String] Your current instance's region.
    Ex: +'us-west-1'+

[+#APP_NAME.config.yml+]
  The application specific configuration (see below a list of available apps and
  values).

This gem checks if the files exists and if they are in a correct YAML format.

All files should have the following format (where the keys are symbols):
    # Comment
    :key: 'value'
    :string: 'string value'
    :integer: 123
    :boolean: true/false
    :array:
     - '1st'
     - '2nd'
    :hash:
     -
     :sub_key: 'sub value'


== Command line options

The following command line options are available:

[+ApplicationName+] Specify the application you want to run. For a
                    list of available apps see
                    {file:README.rdoc#label-Applications Applications} below.
[+-c+ <tt>--confdir '~/.vgh'</tt>] Specify the desired directory in which
                                   the configuration files reside.
[+-v+ <tt>--[no-]verbose</tt>] Specify whether to display messages on the
                               screen or not.
[+-l+ <tt>--[no-]logging</tt>] Specify whether to log messages or not.
[+-h+ +--help+] Displays this list.
[+-V+ +--version+] Displays the version number.


== Applications

=== EC2-Backup

[/bin/vgh ec2-backup]

  ==== Description
  This app creates a snapshot of the attached EBS volumes. It also deletes
  snapshots older than the expiration period specified in the configuration
  file. It is intended to be used as a cron job on an AWS instance running
  Ubuntu.
  If a MySQL server is running, and the script has access to the administrator
  credentials, then it closes all open tables and locks all tables for all
  databases with a global read lock. Everything is unlocked at the end of the
  script even if errors occur during the snapshot process. <em>You need to
  provide the necessary mysql credentials in the +ec2-backup.config.yml+ file.
  </em>
  If Logical Volumes are found on the system then they are suspended for the
  duration on the snapshot process.
  Suspending a volume becomes useful if you want for example a consistent
  EC2 snapshot of it. Any I/O that has already been mapped by the device but
  has not yet completed will be flushed. Any further I/O to that device will
  be postponed for as long as the device is suspended.


  ==== EC2-Backup Configuration
  +ec2-backup.config.yml+
  - +:expiration+ -- [Integer] Number of days to keep the snapshots.
      # Ex:
      :expiration: 7


  ==== Intended usage
    # Cron Job:
    0 */6 * * * vgh ec2-backup -l


== Contributing

1. Fork it
2. Create your feature branch (<tt>git checkout -b my-new-feature</tt>)
3. Commit your changes (<tt>git commit -am 'Add some feature'</tt>)
4. Push to the branch (<tt>git push origin my-new-feature</tt>)
5. Create new Pull Request (http://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests)
